Now that we have these guiding comments we can start to put some implementation together.
So to get started with the first comment right here we want to check to see if we have visited the current
cell specified at row and column.
Remember our grid array is what is keeping track of the different cells we have visited.
So we essentially want to look in that two dimensional array look at the appropriate element inside
there and see if it is true if it is true.
That means we have already visited the cell at row and column and so that means that we would want to
return right away I will say if grid at row sets going to select our row and column is equal to true
then return.
Now this is a funny little thing here.
We are storing boolean values inside the grid so grid at row column is either going to be true or false.
So we don't really need the comparison there is if it's true.
Well true is true.
And so we are going to enter the if statement and return right away so if we get past that check then
we will go ahead and mark this cell as being visited.
So we just need to look at that same element inside of the grid and update its value to be true to indicate
hey we've been here we visited this cell so I'm going to say grid at row and column is true that's pretty
much it for the first two steps.
Let's immediately do some testing.
Just we can verify everything is working as expected it's going to go down to the bottom.
We're going to call step through cell one time with our random start and column start row and start
column and then after that I will console log out my grid.
So because we are calling step through cell exactly one time right now I would expect to find one element
inside there that has been updated to true and it should be random.
So if I refresh the page several times a different element should be getting set to true so go back
over and refresh.
I can expand the console log and there we go.
So one value inside of here has been set to true or refresh again.
And I now see a different element and a different elements set to true.
So these are these starting locations of our iteration to build out the maze.
So now that we have Mark that is true that means that we visited the cell.
So the next we need to do is assemble a randomly ordered list of neighbors.
So quick reminder on what that means.
Let's imagine that we randomly select to visit that center cell on this grid on the first step.
So we randomly select that right there.
So we need to assemble a list of all the neighbors that's going to be above to the right below into
the left.
So one two three and four.
In other words we need to determine the row in column indices of each of these pairs.
So remember our rows are on the left hand side so 0 1 N2 those are the rows columns are up top.
So 0 1 and 2.
So we need to say if we are at row 1 column 1 we need to select the cell right above at row 0 column
1.
We also need to get the cell at 1 0 the 1 at 1 2 and the 1 at 2 1.
This might seem like kind of a hard problem to figure out the different indices or these different neighbors
but in reality it's actually really easy.
Let me show you how right now we know that we are at row 1 column 1.
That is our starting cell so we can actually figure out what all the different neighbors are by just
doing a little bit of directed manipulation or some arithmetic on these starting values the cell right
above.
So I'll say here the cell above is always going to be at row minus 1 and the same column we can actually
check the math on this very quickly.
So I met one one to start if I want to go above to this cell right here.
Then I would take Roe minus one.
So one minus one is zero.
That puts me on that row right there.
And then the same column that I'm at previously or at right now.
So my column right now is 1 So Roe minus 1 and column is going to put me right here and that's going
to work for any value of starting row and column then if I want to go to the right and get the cell
at the right.
That's always going to be the same row as whatever I'm starting at and column plus 1 So in other words
I'm going to take the same row of 1 I'm going to take the column on that right now which is 1 Add one
to it and I get to and to get the cell below
they'll be at row plus 1 and same column.
And I think you can see where this is going to get the cell to the left.
It's always going to be the same row and column minus one so we really just have to add or subtract
one to our different row in columns to get all of the neighboring cells.
That's all we have to do now that we understand this we can't build out a list of all the different
neighbors or essentially the coordinates of each of them by applying those rules right here on assemble
a randomly ordered list of neighbors are going to say neighbors is an array and I'm going to list out
in row column notation the coordinates of the different neighbors around the current cell.
So using the list we just went through going to first start off at the start at the top first about
that so I'll do the row minus one and whatever the current column is next to the right we'll do our
row in column plus 1 and below is going to be row plus one and the same column.
And then finally to the left is gonna be the same row but column minus one.
So those are the coordinate pairs of all of my different neighbors.
Now the next we have to do is randomly sort this list the randomly sorting part of this list is what's
going to actually give us a randomized looking maze adding in these random sorting logic or the kind
of shuffling logic is a little bit more complicated.
So let's take a quick pause and tackle that in the next video.